title="Interaction of discourse and space"
language="en"

# Interaction of discourse and space

We tend to view language, discourse as abstract. Some people go so far as to
claim that _sticks and stones may break your bones, but words cannot hurt you_.
Is this true though?

Well, any scholar of discourse, as well as most people who have been targets of
hate speech; who have been marginalised, disenfranchised, and/or disadvantaged
as a result of popular and/or institutional discriminatory politics; as well as
those people who wield power and occupy positions of advantage in our societies
would know better than to be fooled by such a misconception.

Language, and more specifically discourse, are among the main means through
which we affect the world. From expressing speech acts (which are maybe the
most literal way language affects the world); to creating, modifying, and
disseminating ideas and ideologies that then govern what actions persons,
groups, and societies take; discourse is _central_ to how we explain, affect,
and transform the world around us; both in it's _physical_ form, as well as in
it's _metaphysical_ form: ideas, memories, histories, perceptions.

In the context of [studying privileged, majoritised identity
discourses](./rsc-mid.html), then, with _the study of the interaction of
discourse and space_, I intend to convey an interest in what role discourse
plays in affecting and transforming the spaces we inhabit, as well as in
forming the various perceptions of such spaces that different people hold.
These spaces are the various _social_ spaces available to us: from those in the
material world, such as homes, caf√©s, schools, to those that are arguably
_not_, such as social media, disciplines of scholarship, or identity groups,
for example, _hipsters_.

On the flip side, of course, these spaces affect our discourses and ideologies.
Spaces have histories and existing occupants, spaces are often contested by
multiple groups that claim ownership or seek equal access. Often there's
a pre-existing set of perceptions that are common about a space; some
flattering, some not as much. All these and similar are also within the scope
of the study of interaction of discourse and space.

This research agenda then, basically, is about how discourse and space
continually influence each other; an influence, as we just said, that flows
bidirectionally. Within this framework, I am mainly interested in those
interactions that relate to privileged and/or majoritised identity discourses.
This entails such topics as gentrification, linguistic and semiotic landscapes,
language ideologies, and more.
